docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configure the bot

This page explains how to configure your `config.json` file.

## Table of Contents

- [Bot commands](#bot-commands)
- [Backtesting commands](#backtesting-commands)
- [Hyperopt commands](#hyperopt-commands)

## Setup config.json

We recommend to copy and use the `config.json.example` as a template
for your bot configuration.

The table below will list all configuration parameters.

|  Command | Default | Mandatory | Description |
|----------|---------|----------|-------------|
| `max_open_trades` | 3 | Yes | Number of trades open your bot will have. If -1 then it is ignored (i.e. potentially unlimited open trades)
| `stake_currency` | BTC | Yes | Crypto-currency used for trading.
| `stake_amount` | 0.05 | Yes | Amount of crypto-currency your bot will use for each trade. Per default, the bot will use (0.05 BTC x 3) = 0.15 BTC in total will be always engaged. Set it to 'unlimited' to allow the bot to use all avaliable balance.
| `ticker_interval` | [1m, 5m, 30m, 1h, 1d] | No | The ticker interval to use (1min, 5 min, 30 min, 1 hour or 1 day). Default is 5 minutes
| `fiat_display_currency` | USD | Yes | Fiat currency used to show your profits. More information below.
| `dry_run` | true | Yes | Define if the bot must be in Dry-run or production mode.
| `process_only_new_candles` | false | No | If set to true indicators are processed only once a new candle arrives. If false each loop populates the indicators, this will mean the same candle is processed many times creating system load but can be useful of your strategy depends on tick data not only candle. Can be set either in Configuration or in the strategy.
| `minimal_roi` | See below | No | Set the threshold in percent the bot will use to sell a trade. More information below. If set, this parameter will override `minimal_roi` from your strategy file.
| `stoploss` | -0.10 | No | Value of the stoploss in percent used by the bot. More information below. If set, this parameter will override `stoploss` from your strategy file.
| `trailing_stop` | false | No | Enables trailing stop-loss (based on `stoploss` in either configuration or strategy file).
| `trailing_stop_positve` | 0 | No | Changes stop-loss once profit has been reached.
| `trailing_stop_positve_offset` | 0 | No | Offset on when to apply `trailing_stop_positive`. Percentage value which should be positive.
| `unfilledtimeout.buy` | 10 | Yes | How long (in minutes) the bot will wait for an unfilled buy order to complete, after which the order will be cancelled.
| `unfilledtimeout.sell` | 10 | Yes | How long (in minutes) the bot will wait for an unfilled sell order to complete, after which the order will be cancelled.
| `bid_strategy.ask_last_balance` | 0.0 | Yes | Set the bidding price. More information below.
| `bid_strategy.use_order_book` | false | No | Allows buying of pair using the rates in Order Book Bids.
| `bid_strategy.order_book_top` | 0 | No | Bot will use the top N rate in Order Book Bids. Ie. a value of 2 will allow the bot to pick the 2nd bid rate in Order Book Bids.
| `bid_strategy.check_depth_of_market.enabled` | false | No | Does not buy if the % difference of buy orders and sell orders is met in Order Book.
| `bid_strategy.check_depth_of_market.bids_to_ask_delta` | 0 | No | The % difference of buy orders and sell orders found in Order Book. A value lesser than 1 means sell orders is greater, while value greater than 1 means buy orders is higher.
| `ask_strategy.use_order_book` | false | No | Allows selling of open traded pair using the rates in Order Book Asks.
| `ask_strategy.order_book_min` | 0 | No | Bot will scan from the top min to max Order Book Asks searching for a profitable rate.
| `ask_strategy.order_book_max` | 0 | No | Bot will scan from the top min to max Order Book Asks searching for a profitable rate.
| `order_types` | None | No | Configure order-types depending on the action (`"buy"`, `"sell"`, `"stoploss"`).
| `exchange.name` | bittrex | Yes | Name of the exchange class to use. [List below](#user-content-what-values-for-exchangename).
| `exchange.key` | key | No | API key to use for the exchange. Only required when you are in production mode.
| `exchange.secret` | secret | No | API secret to use for the exchange. Only required when you are in production mode.
| `exchange.pair_whitelist` | [] | No | List of currency to use by the bot. Can be overrided with `--dynamic-whitelist` param.
| `exchange.pair_blacklist` | [] | No | List of currency the bot must avoid. Useful when using `--dynamic-whitelist` param.
| `exchange.ccxt_rate_limit` | True | No | DEPRECATED!! Have CCXT handle Exchange rate limits. Depending on the exchange, having this to false can lead to temporary bans from the exchange.
| `exchange.ccxt_config` | None | No | Additional CCXT parameters passed to the regular ccxt instance. Parameters may differ from exchange to exchange and are documented in the [ccxt documentation](https://ccxt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual.html#instantiation)
| `exchange.ccxt_async_config` | None | No | Additional CCXT parameters passed to the async ccxt instance. Parameters may differ from exchange to exchange  and are documented in the [ccxt documentation](https://ccxt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual.html#instantiation)
| `edge` | false | No | Please refer to [edge configuration document](edge.md) for detailed explanation.
| `experimental.use_sell_signal` | false | No | Use your sell strategy in addition of the `minimal_roi`.
| `experimental.sell_profit_only` | false | No | waits until you have made a positive profit before taking a sell decision.
| `experimental.ignore_roi_if_buy_signal` | false | No | Does not sell if the buy-signal is still active. Takes preference over `minimal_roi` and `use_sell_signal`
| `telegram.enabled` | true | Yes | Enable or not the usage of Telegram.
| `telegram.token` | token | No | Your Telegram bot token. Only required if `telegram.enabled` is `true`.
| `telegram.chat_id` | chat_id | No | Your personal Telegram account id. Only required if `telegram.enabled` is `true`.
| `webhook.enabled` | false | No | Enable usage of Webhook notifications
| `webhook.url` | false | No | URL for the webhook. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentation](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhookbuy` | false | No | Payload to send on buy. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhooksell` | false | No | Payload to send on sell. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhookstatus` | false | No | Payload to send on status calls. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `db_url` | `sqlite:///tradesv3.sqlite` | No | Declares database URL to use. NOTE: This defaults to `sqlite://` if `dry_run` is `True`.
| `initial_state` | running | No | Defines the initial application state. More information below.
| `forcebuy_enable` | false | No | Enables the RPC Commands to force a buy. More information below.
| `strategy` | DefaultStrategy | No | Defines Strategy class to use.
| `strategy_path` | null | No | Adds an additional strategy lookup path (must be a folder).
| `internals.process_throttle_secs` | 5 | Yes | Set the process throttle. Value in second.

The definition of each config parameters is in [misc.py](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/freqtrade/misc.py#L205).

### Understand stake_amount

`stake_amount` is an amount of crypto-currency your bot will use for each trade.
The minimal value is 0.0005. If there is not enough crypto-currency in
the account an exception is generated.
To allow the bot to trade all the avaliable `stake_currency` in your account set `stake_amount` = `unlimited`.
In this case a trade amount is calclulated as `currency_balanse / (max_open_trades - current_open_trades)`.

### Understand minimal_roi

`minimal_roi` is a JSON object where the key is a duration
in minutes and the value is the minimum ROI in percent.
See the example below:

```
"minimal_roi": {
    "40": 0.0,    # Sell after 40 minutes if the profit is not negative
    "30": 0.01,   # Sell after 30 minutes if there is at least 1% profit
    "20": 0.02,   # Sell after 20 minutes if there is at least 2% profit
    "0":  0.04    # Sell immediately if there is at least 4% profit
},
```

Most of the strategy files already include the optimal `minimal_roi`
value. This parameter is optional. If you use it, it will take over the
`minimal_roi` value from the strategy file.

### Understand stoploss

`stoploss` is loss in percentage that should trigger a sale.
For example value `-0.10` will cause immediate sell if the
profit dips below -10% for a given trade. This parameter is optional.

Most of the strategy files already include the optimal `stoploss`
value. This parameter is optional. If you use it, it will take over the
`stoploss` value from the strategy file.

### Understand trailing stoploss

Go to the [trailing stoploss Documentation](stoploss.md) for details on trailing stoploss.

### Understand initial_state

`initial_state` is an optional field that defines the initial application state.
Possible values are `running` or `stopped`. (default=`running`)
If the value is `stopped` the bot has to be started with `/start` first.

### Understand forcebuy_enable

`forcebuy_enable` enables the usage of forcebuy commands via Telegram.
This is disabled for security reasons by default, and will show a warning message on startup if enabled.
You send `/forcebuy ETH/BTC` to the bot, who buys the pair and holds it until a regular sell-signal appears (ROI, stoploss, /forcesell).

Can be dangerous with some strategies, so use with care
See [the telegram documentation](telegram-usage.md) for details on usage.

### Understand process_throttle_secs

`process_throttle_secs` is an optional field that defines in seconds how long the bot should wait
before asking the strategy if we should buy or a sell an asset. After each wait period, the strategy is asked again for
every opened trade wether or not we should sell, and for all the remaining pairs (either the dynamic list of pairs or
the static list of pairs) if we should buy.

### Understand ask_last_balance

`ask_last_balance` sets the bidding price. Value `0.0` will use `ask` price, `1.0` will
use the `last` price and values between those interpolate between ask and last
price. Using `ask` price will guarantee quick success in bid, but bot will also
end up paying more then would probably have been necessary.

### Understand order_types

`order_types` contains a dict mapping order-types to market-types. This allows to buy using limit orders, sell using limit-orders, and create stoploss orders using market.
This can be set in the configuration or in the strategy. Configuration overwrites strategy configurations.

If this is configured, all 3 values (`"buy"`, `"sell"` and `"stoploss"`) need to be present, otherwise the bot warn about it and will fail to start.
The below is the default which is used if this is not configured in either Strategy or configuration.

``` json
    "order_types": {
        "buy": "limit",
        "sell": "limit",
        "stoploss": "market"
    },
```

### What values for exchange.name?

Freqtrade is based on [CCXT library](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt) that supports 115 cryptocurrency
exchange markets and trading APIs. The complete up-to-date list can be found in the
[CCXT repo homepage](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt/tree/master/python). However, the bot was tested
with only Bittrex and Binance.

The bot was tested with the following exchanges:

- [Bittrex](https://bittrex.com/): "bittrex"
- [Binance](https://www.binance.com/): "binance"

Feel free to test other exchanges and submit your PR to improve the bot.

### What values for fiat_display_currency?

`fiat_display_currency` set the base currency to use for the conversion from coin to fiat in Telegram.
The valid values are: "AUD", "BRL", "CAD", "CHF", "CLP", "CNY", "CZK", "DKK", "EUR", "GBP", "HKD", "HUF", "IDR", "ILS", "INR", "JPY", "KRW", "MXN", "MYR", "NOK", "NZD", "PHP", "PKR", "PLN", "RUB", "SEK", "SGD", "THB", "TRY", "TWD", "ZAR", "USD".
In addition to central bank currencies, a range of cryto currencies are supported.
The valid values are: "BTC", "ETH", "XRP", "LTC", "BCH", "USDT".

## Switch to dry-run mode

We recommend starting the bot in dry-run mode to see how your bot will
behave and how is the performance of your strategy. In Dry-run mode the
bot does not engage your money. It only runs a live simulation without
creating trades.

### To switch your bot in Dry-run mode:

1. Edit your `config.json`  file
2. Switch dry-run to true and specify db_url for a persistent db

```json
"dry_run": true,
"db_url": "sqlite///tradesv3.dryrun.sqlite",
```

3. Remove your Exchange API key (change them by fake api credentials)

```json
"exchange": {
        "name": "bittrex",
        "key": "key",
        "secret": "secret",
        ...
}
```

Once you will be happy with your bot performance, you can switch it to
production mode.

## Switch to production mode

In production mode, the bot will engage your money. Be careful a wrong
strategy can lose all your money. Be aware of what you are doing when
you run it in production mode.

### To switch your bot in production mode:

1. Edit your `config.json`  file

2. Switch dry-run to false and don't forget to adapt your database URL if set

```json
"dry_run": false,
```

3. Insert your Exchange API key (change them by fake api keys)

```json
"exchange": {
        "name": "bittrex",
        "key": "af8ddd35195e9dc500b9a6f799f6f5c93d89193b",
        "secret": "08a9dc6db3d7b53e1acebd9275677f4b0a04f1a5",
        ...
}

```

If you have not your Bittrex API key yet, [see our tutorial](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/docs/pre-requisite.md).

### Using proxy with FreqTrade

To use a proxy with freqtrade, add the kwarg `"aiohttp_trust_env"=true` to the `"ccxt_async_kwargs"` dict in the exchange section of the configuration.

An example for this can be found in `config_full.json.example`

``` json
"ccxt_async_config": {
    "aiohttp_trust_env": true
}
```

Then, export your proxy settings using the variables `"HTTP_PROXY"` and `"HTTPS_PROXY"` set to the appropriate values

``` bash
export HTTP_PROXY="http://addr:port"
export HTTPS_PROXY="http://addr:port"
freqtrade
```


### Embedding Strategies

FreqTrade provides you with with an easy way to embed the strategy into your configuration file.
This is done by utilizing BASE64 encoding and providing this string at the strategy configuration field,
in your chosen config file.

#### Encoding a string as BASE64

This is a quick example, how to generate the BASE64 string in python

```python
from base64 import urlsafe_b64encode

with open(file, 'r') as f:
    content = f.read()
content = urlsafe_b64encode(content.encode('utf-8'))
```

The variable 'content', will contain the strategy file in a BASE64 encoded form. Which can now be set in your configurations file as following

```json
"strategy": "NameOfStrategy:BASE64String"
```

Please ensure that 'NameOfStrategy' is identical to the strategy name!

## Next step

Now you have configured your config.json, the next step is to [start your bot](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/docs/bot-usage.md).

Commit message:

documentation added for stop loss on exchange

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configure the bot

This page explains how to configure your `config.json` file.

## Table of Contents

- [Bot commands](#bot-commands)
- [Backtesting commands](#backtesting-commands)
- [Hyperopt commands](#hyperopt-commands)

## Setup config.json

We recommend to copy and use the `config.json.example` as a template
for your bot configuration.

The table below will list all configuration parameters.

|  Command | Default | Mandatory | Description |
|----------|---------|----------|-------------|
| `max_open_trades` | 3 | Yes | Number of trades open your bot will have. If -1 then it is ignored (i.e. potentially unlimited open trades)
| `stake_currency` | BTC | Yes | Crypto-currency used for trading.
| `stake_amount` | 0.05 | Yes | Amount of crypto-currency your bot will use for each trade. Per default, the bot will use (0.05 BTC x 3) = 0.15 BTC in total will be always engaged. Set it to 'unlimited' to allow the bot to use all avaliable balance.
| `ticker_interval` | [1m, 5m, 30m, 1h, 1d] | No | The ticker interval to use (1min, 5 min, 30 min, 1 hour or 1 day). Default is 5 minutes
| `fiat_display_currency` | USD | Yes | Fiat currency used to show your profits. More information below.
| `dry_run` | true | Yes | Define if the bot must be in Dry-run or production mode.
| `process_only_new_candles` | false | No | If set to true indicators are processed only once a new candle arrives. If false each loop populates the indicators, this will mean the same candle is processed many times creating system load but can be useful of your strategy depends on tick data not only candle. Can be set either in Configuration or in the strategy.
| `minimal_roi` | See below | No | Set the threshold in percent the bot will use to sell a trade. More information below. If set, this parameter will override `minimal_roi` from your strategy file.
| `stoploss` | -0.10 | No | Value of the stoploss in percent used by the bot. More information below. If set, this parameter will override `stoploss` from your strategy file.
| `trailing_stop` | false | No | Enables trailing stop-loss (based on `stoploss` in either configuration or strategy file).
| `trailing_stop_positve` | 0 | No | Changes stop-loss once profit has been reached.
| `trailing_stop_positve_offset` | 0 | No | Offset on when to apply `trailing_stop_positive`. Percentage value which should be positive.
| `unfilledtimeout.buy` | 10 | Yes | How long (in minutes) the bot will wait for an unfilled buy order to complete, after which the order will be cancelled.
| `unfilledtimeout.sell` | 10 | Yes | How long (in minutes) the bot will wait for an unfilled sell order to complete, after which the order will be cancelled.
| `bid_strategy.ask_last_balance` | 0.0 | Yes | Set the bidding price. More information below.
| `bid_strategy.use_order_book` | false | No | Allows buying of pair using the rates in Order Book Bids.
| `bid_strategy.order_book_top` | 0 | No | Bot will use the top N rate in Order Book Bids. Ie. a value of 2 will allow the bot to pick the 2nd bid rate in Order Book Bids.
| `bid_strategy.check_depth_of_market.enabled` | false | No | Does not buy if the % difference of buy orders and sell orders is met in Order Book.
| `bid_strategy.check_depth_of_market.bids_to_ask_delta` | 0 | No | The % difference of buy orders and sell orders found in Order Book. A value lesser than 1 means sell orders is greater, while value greater than 1 means buy orders is higher.
| `ask_strategy.use_order_book` | false | No | Allows selling of open traded pair using the rates in Order Book Asks.
| `ask_strategy.order_book_min` | 0 | No | Bot will scan from the top min to max Order Book Asks searching for a profitable rate.
| `ask_strategy.order_book_max` | 0 | No | Bot will scan from the top min to max Order Book Asks searching for a profitable rate.
| `order_types` | None | No | Configure order-types depending on the action (`"buy"`, `"sell"`, `"stoploss"`, `"stoploss_on_exchange"`).
| `exchange.name` | bittrex | Yes | Name of the exchange class to use. [List below](#user-content-what-values-for-exchangename).
| `exchange.key` | key | No | API key to use for the exchange. Only required when you are in production mode.
| `exchange.secret` | secret | No | API secret to use for the exchange. Only required when you are in production mode.
| `exchange.pair_whitelist` | [] | No | List of currency to use by the bot. Can be overrided with `--dynamic-whitelist` param.
| `exchange.pair_blacklist` | [] | No | List of currency the bot must avoid. Useful when using `--dynamic-whitelist` param.
| `exchange.ccxt_rate_limit` | True | No | DEPRECATED!! Have CCXT handle Exchange rate limits. Depending on the exchange, having this to false can lead to temporary bans from the exchange.
| `exchange.ccxt_config` | None | No | Additional CCXT parameters passed to the regular ccxt instance. Parameters may differ from exchange to exchange and are documented in the [ccxt documentation](https://ccxt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual.html#instantiation)
| `exchange.ccxt_async_config` | None | No | Additional CCXT parameters passed to the async ccxt instance. Parameters may differ from exchange to exchange  and are documented in the [ccxt documentation](https://ccxt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/manual.html#instantiation)
| `edge` | false | No | Please refer to [edge configuration document](edge.md) for detailed explanation.
| `experimental.use_sell_signal` | false | No | Use your sell strategy in addition of the `minimal_roi`.
| `experimental.sell_profit_only` | false | No | waits until you have made a positive profit before taking a sell decision.
| `experimental.ignore_roi_if_buy_signal` | false | No | Does not sell if the buy-signal is still active. Takes preference over `minimal_roi` and `use_sell_signal`
| `telegram.enabled` | true | Yes | Enable or not the usage of Telegram.
| `telegram.token` | token | No | Your Telegram bot token. Only required if `telegram.enabled` is `true`.
| `telegram.chat_id` | chat_id | No | Your personal Telegram account id. Only required if `telegram.enabled` is `true`.
| `webhook.enabled` | false | No | Enable usage of Webhook notifications
| `webhook.url` | false | No | URL for the webhook. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentation](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhookbuy` | false | No | Payload to send on buy. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhooksell` | false | No | Payload to send on sell. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `webhook.webhookstatus` | false | No | Payload to send on status calls. Only required if `webhook.enabled` is `true`. See the [webhook documentationV](webhook-config.md) for more details.
| `db_url` | `sqlite:///tradesv3.sqlite` | No | Declares database URL to use. NOTE: This defaults to `sqlite://` if `dry_run` is `True`.
| `initial_state` | running | No | Defines the initial application state. More information below.
| `forcebuy_enable` | false | No | Enables the RPC Commands to force a buy. More information below.
| `strategy` | DefaultStrategy | No | Defines Strategy class to use.
| `strategy_path` | null | No | Adds an additional strategy lookup path (must be a folder).
| `internals.process_throttle_secs` | 5 | Yes | Set the process throttle. Value in second.

The definition of each config parameters is in [misc.py](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/freqtrade/misc.py#L205).

### Understand stake_amount

`stake_amount` is an amount of crypto-currency your bot will use for each trade.
The minimal value is 0.0005. If there is not enough crypto-currency in
the account an exception is generated.
To allow the bot to trade all the avaliable `stake_currency` in your account set `stake_amount` = `unlimited`.
In this case a trade amount is calclulated as `currency_balanse / (max_open_trades - current_open_trades)`.

### Understand minimal_roi

`minimal_roi` is a JSON object where the key is a duration
in minutes and the value is the minimum ROI in percent.
See the example below:

```
"minimal_roi": {
    "40": 0.0,    # Sell after 40 minutes if the profit is not negative
    "30": 0.01,   # Sell after 30 minutes if there is at least 1% profit
    "20": 0.02,   # Sell after 20 minutes if there is at least 2% profit
    "0":  0.04    # Sell immediately if there is at least 4% profit
},
```

Most of the strategy files already include the optimal `minimal_roi`
value. This parameter is optional. If you use it, it will take over the
`minimal_roi` value from the strategy file.

### Understand stoploss

`stoploss` is loss in percentage that should trigger a sale.
For example value `-0.10` will cause immediate sell if the
profit dips below -10% for a given trade. This parameter is optional.

Most of the strategy files already include the optimal `stoploss`
value. This parameter is optional. If you use it, it will take over the
`stoploss` value from the strategy file.

### Understand trailing stoploss

Go to the [trailing stoploss Documentation](stoploss.md) for details on trailing stoploss.

### Understand initial_state

`initial_state` is an optional field that defines the initial application state.
Possible values are `running` or `stopped`. (default=`running`)
If the value is `stopped` the bot has to be started with `/start` first.

### Understand forcebuy_enable

`forcebuy_enable` enables the usage of forcebuy commands via Telegram.
This is disabled for security reasons by default, and will show a warning message on startup if enabled.
You send `/forcebuy ETH/BTC` to the bot, who buys the pair and holds it until a regular sell-signal appears (ROI, stoploss, /forcesell).

Can be dangerous with some strategies, so use with care
See [the telegram documentation](telegram-usage.md) for details on usage.

### Understand process_throttle_secs

`process_throttle_secs` is an optional field that defines in seconds how long the bot should wait
before asking the strategy if we should buy or a sell an asset. After each wait period, the strategy is asked again for
every opened trade wether or not we should sell, and for all the remaining pairs (either the dynamic list of pairs or
the static list of pairs) if we should buy.

### Understand ask_last_balance

`ask_last_balance` sets the bidding price. Value `0.0` will use `ask` price, `1.0` will
use the `last` price and values between those interpolate between ask and last
price. Using `ask` price will guarantee quick success in bid, but bot will also
end up paying more then would probably have been necessary.

### Understand order_types

`order_types` contains a dict mapping order-types to market-types as well as stoploss on or off exchange type. This allows to buy using limit orders, sell using limit-orders, and create stoploss orders using market. It also allows to set the stoploss "on exchange" which means stoploss order would be placed immediately once the buy order is fulfilled.
This can be set in the configuration or in the strategy. Configuration overwrites strategy configurations.

If this is configured, all 4 values (`"buy"`, `"sell"`, `"stoploss"`, `"stoploss_on_exchange"`) need to be present, otherwise the bot warn about it and will fail to start.
The below is the default which is used if this is not configured in either Strategy or configuration.

``` json
    "order_types": {
        "buy": "limit",
        "sell": "limit",
        "stoploss": "market",
        "stoploss_on_exchange": "false"
    },
```

### What values for exchange.name?

Freqtrade is based on [CCXT library](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt) that supports 115 cryptocurrency
exchange markets and trading APIs. The complete up-to-date list can be found in the
[CCXT repo homepage](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt/tree/master/python). However, the bot was tested
with only Bittrex and Binance.

The bot was tested with the following exchanges:

- [Bittrex](https://bittrex.com/): "bittrex"
- [Binance](https://www.binance.com/): "binance"

Feel free to test other exchanges and submit your PR to improve the bot.

### What values for fiat_display_currency?

`fiat_display_currency` set the base currency to use for the conversion from coin to fiat in Telegram.
The valid values are: "AUD", "BRL", "CAD", "CHF", "CLP", "CNY", "CZK", "DKK", "EUR", "GBP", "HKD", "HUF", "IDR", "ILS", "INR", "JPY", "KRW", "MXN", "MYR", "NOK", "NZD", "PHP", "PKR", "PLN", "RUB", "SEK", "SGD", "THB", "TRY", "TWD", "ZAR", "USD".
In addition to central bank currencies, a range of cryto currencies are supported.
The valid values are: "BTC", "ETH", "XRP", "LTC", "BCH", "USDT".

## Switch to dry-run mode

We recommend starting the bot in dry-run mode to see how your bot will
behave and how is the performance of your strategy. In Dry-run mode the
bot does not engage your money. It only runs a live simulation without
creating trades.

### To switch your bot in Dry-run mode:

1. Edit your `config.json`  file
2. Switch dry-run to true and specify db_url for a persistent db

```json
"dry_run": true,
"db_url": "sqlite///tradesv3.dryrun.sqlite",
```

3. Remove your Exchange API key (change them by fake api credentials)

```json
"exchange": {
        "name": "bittrex",
        "key": "key",
        "secret": "secret",
        ...
}
```

Once you will be happy with your bot performance, you can switch it to
production mode.

## Switch to production mode

In production mode, the bot will engage your money. Be careful a wrong
strategy can lose all your money. Be aware of what you are doing when
you run it in production mode.

### To switch your bot in production mode:

1. Edit your `config.json`  file

2. Switch dry-run to false and don't forget to adapt your database URL if set

```json
"dry_run": false,
```

3. Insert your Exchange API key (change them by fake api keys)

```json
"exchange": {
        "name": "bittrex",
        "key": "af8ddd35195e9dc500b9a6f799f6f5c93d89193b",
        "secret": "08a9dc6db3d7b53e1acebd9275677f4b0a04f1a5",
        ...
}

```

If you have not your Bittrex API key yet, [see our tutorial](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/docs/pre-requisite.md).

### Using proxy with FreqTrade

To use a proxy with freqtrade, add the kwarg `"aiohttp_trust_env"=true` to the `"ccxt_async_kwargs"` dict in the exchange section of the configuration.

An example for this can be found in `config_full.json.example`

``` json
"ccxt_async_config": {
    "aiohttp_trust_env": true
}
```

Then, export your proxy settings using the variables `"HTTP_PROXY"` and `"HTTPS_PROXY"` set to the appropriate values

``` bash
export HTTP_PROXY="http://addr:port"
export HTTPS_PROXY="http://addr:port"
freqtrade
```


### Embedding Strategies

FreqTrade provides you with with an easy way to embed the strategy into your configuration file.
This is done by utilizing BASE64 encoding and providing this string at the strategy configuration field,
in your chosen config file.

#### Encoding a string as BASE64

This is a quick example, how to generate the BASE64 string in python

```python
from base64 import urlsafe_b64encode

with open(file, 'r') as f:
    content = f.read()
content = urlsafe_b64encode(content.encode('utf-8'))
```

The variable 'content', will contain the strategy file in a BASE64 encoded form. Which can now be set in your configurations file as following

```json
"strategy": "NameOfStrategy:BASE64String"
```

Please ensure that 'NameOfStrategy' is identical to the strategy name!

## Next step

Now you have configured your config.json, the next step is to [start your bot](https://github.com/freqtrade/freqtrade/blob/develop/docs/bot-usage.md).
